So moving on to the elastic file system.
This is a fully managed service that makes it easy to setup and scale file storage so remember that
this is file storage not block storage.
It's an implementation of an NFS file share
Accessed using the NFS version 4.1 protocol.
It's elastic in nature so it scales drastically and you only pay for what you use.
And this is different to EBS because with EBS you actually pay for the amount of data you provision.
So if you create an EBS volume that's 100 gig in size you pay for 100 gig not the maybe 10 gigabytes
data that you've got stored on it.
It's multi AZ for metadata and data storage and you can configure your mount points in one or many
AZs.
It can be mounted from on premises systems.
If you use direct connect or VPN. Alternatively you can use the EFS file sync agent to replicate data.
EFS is elastic and grows and shrinks as you add and remove data and can scale to petabytes you can
connect concurrently up to thousands of EC2 instances from multiple ways.
So this is a real big difference to EBS.
We can only connect the EBS volume to one EC2 instance. With EFS you can connect lots of EC2
instances concurrently you can choose two different performance modes you've got General Purpose and
Max IO. EFS is a file system interface again and it uses file system access semantics such as strong
consistency and forward looking so data stored across multiple AZs in a region. It has read after
write consistency and you need to create the Mount targets and choose the AZs to include. Access control
is performed in a couple of ways.
So you've got the access control for the administration of the file system and that's using IAM and
then for the actual files.
So controlling access to files and directories you use POSIX compliant user and group level permissions.
This allows you to restrict access by user and group. A security group is the
firewall where you add the rules to define the traffic flow that's allowed to your EFS file system.
We then have encryption. So EFS offers the ability to encrypt data at rest and in transit. Keys are managed
by KMS and the data encryption in transit uses the industry standard TLS 1.2 to encrypt
data. Data encrypted at rest is transparently encrypted while being written and decrypted while it's
being read you can enable encryption at rest in the EFS console or by using the CLI or SDKs. So
EFS Sync provides a fast and simple way to securely sync existing file systems into EFS.
You might use that for migrating data to AWS and you can copy data up to five times faster than
Using standard tools. It's secure and efficient and it copies data and file system metadata such
as the ownership the timestamps and access permissions as well.
Now Amazon FSx is something which has been introduced fairly recently on AWS and it is definitely part
of the SAA-C02 version of the exam.
Whatever FSx is it provides fully managed third party file systems. With FSx
you are looking at workloads such as high performance computing, machine learning, and electronic design
automation and we'll talk a bit more about some of those use cases shortly.
With FSx it's a managed service so you can allow it to manage to file servers and the storage and it
will also make time consuming tasks such as the hardware provisioning software configuration patching
and backup.
So that's just a standard comment from AWS about the fact that this is a managed implementation of these
file systems.
It integrates the file systems with cloud based AWS services as well.
Now there are two different file systems you can choose from.
There's the FSX for windows file server for Windows based applications and the FSx for Lustre for compute
intensive workloads.
So let's look at those and a bit more detail.
Amazon FSx for windows file server is a fully managed native Microsoft Windows file system it's built
on Windows Server and provides compatibility with the features which you would expect with a Windows
file system that's SMB protocol, NTFS, and Microsoft AD integration.
It uses SSD storage so it's fast and low latency and you can use this for all sorts of critical workloads
such as home directories media workflows and business applications.
So definitely supports lots of the windows native filesystem features so access control lists shadow
copies use acquired is also distributed file system.
It's an NTFS file system that uses the SMB protocol for access and you can connect thousands of compute
instances to it. FSx can also connect file systems to EC2, VMware cloud on AWS, and Amazon workspaces
and Amazon App stream 2.0 instances. You can connect from on premise using direct connect or VPN and
from multiple VPC accounts from regions using VPC peering or transit gateway.
Your data is automatically encrypted at rest.
With X and it complies with ISO PCI DSS, and SOC certifications and is also HIPAA eligible. Data
on FSx is automatically replicated within an availability zone and protected form component failure.
Now there is also a multi AZ deployment option and that is a sort of active and standby configuration
where data is actually synchronously replicated to the standby and then also you can failover to that
standby if you need to.
The other type of file system of FSx is FSx for Lustre.
Now this is one where if you hear about Amazon S3 being used and it is a use case with FSx,
this is probably going to be the file system you need to use because it allows you to transparently
access data from S3, so you can see your S3 objects.
You can run analysis on them and then you can save your data back into S3.
You can also access this file system over direct connect with VPN. Another use case for Lustre
is that you can actually burst from on premises into the cloud.
If you're doing that SAA-C02 version of the exam you definitely need to know Amazon FSx, there could
be a few questions on the exam and I recommend therefore going and just doing a bit more reading up
on our training notes.
And also on the AWS website.